JobSummary	Education
"Data Modeler
Strong knowledge of conceptual, logical, and physical data models, business operating models, data management principles and process engineering acquired through completion of a bachelor's degree in business, economics, finance, information science, or related field and a minimum of 4 years of related experience or a master's degree in a related field and 3 years of related experience. Must possess clear, concise, and effective verbal and written communication, including the ability to effectively communicate with technical personnel, business customers, and management, and proven ability to think conceptually and abstractly. Crisp business execution and project management rigor are required along with a demonstrated commitment to a strong customer service philosophy. Metadata Specialist
Strong knowledge of data and metadata management principles, business analysis and process engineering acquired through completion of a bachelor's degree in business, economics, finance, information science, or related field and a minimum of 4 years of related experience or a master's degree in a related field and 3 years of related experience. Must possess clear, concise, and effective verbal and written communication, including the ability to effectively communicate with technical personnel, business customers, and management, and proven ability to think conceptually and abstractly. Crisp business execution and project management rigor are required along with a demonstrated commitment to a strong customer service philosophy. OGDA
Strong knowledge of the requirements of OGDA, data management principles and process engineering. Must possess clear, concise, and effective verbal and written communication, including the ability to effectively communicate with technical personnel, business customers, and management. Crisp business execution and project management rigor are required along with a demonstrated commitment to a strong customer service philosophy. Preferred Skills Include: Certification as a Certified Data Management Professional, Six Sigma, or Project Management Professional. Strong knowledge of organizational change, policy development, strategic planning."	A bachelor's degree in business, economics, finance, information science, or related field or a minimum of 5 years of related experience or a master's degree in a related field and 4 years of related profession experience.
Qualifying experience for the EL-12 level includes one year of specialized experience at least equivalent to EL/GS-12 which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position to be filled and which has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position Examples of specialized experience include the following: Experience maintaining optimal data pipeline architectures for analytical platforms that are aligned with the business requirements delivering reliability and scalability. Experience assembling data sets that meet functional / non-functional business requirements including preparation of data for prescriptive and predictive modeling Experience working with end users to assist with data-related technical issues Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience.	
"Applicants must have a minimum of one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility comparable to the next lower grade or comparable pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private sector.
Specialized Experience Statement: Candidates must possess at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent in responsibility to the NF-14 level in the Federal service, aligning data policy and administration with relevant regulatory, legal, and ethical mandates for a major organization or institution.
Other Relevant Eligibility Criteria: None
Your application and resume must demonstrate that you possess the following knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs). Do not provide a separate narrative written statement. Rather, you must show in your r&eacute;sum&eacute; how your past work experience demonstrates that you possess the KSAs identified below. If asked to do so, cite specific examples of employment or experience contained in your resume and describe how this experience has prepared you to successfully perform the duties of this position. DO NOT write ""see resume"" in your application!Those applicants who meet the minimum qualification requirements will be evaluated against these factors to determine the best-qualified candidates. Demonstrated knowledge of the following: data structure, information systems/tools, related software and data management, enterprise content management, and record-keeping policies and practices in a complex organizational environment. Information strategy experience &mdash; Experience in strategic technology planning and execution, and policy development and maintenance. Analytical skills &mdash; Outstanding analytical and problem-solving abilities. Familiarity with business information generation and analysis methods. Ability to establish and manage appropriate-sized and skilled organization of data analytic professionals and lead the development of the program as defined in the Data Analytics Framework/Roadmap. Ability to partner across the enterprise for the successful implementation of the Data Analytics program in the various business units. Develop policies/procedures that clarify business lead data analytics work versus the enterprise lead data analytics work. Establish external network of leading data analytics experts to bring new/emerging technologies and best practices to the Gallery&rsquo;s program. GS-5 through GS-15 (or equivalent): For all positions individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations."	Education cannot be substituted for experience required for this position. Education combined with required experience is preferred. You are strongly encouraged to submit a copy of your transcripts (or a list of your courses including titles, credit hours completed and grades). Unofficial transcripts will be accepted in the application package. Official transcripts will be required from all selectees prior to receiving an official offer.Click here for information on Foreign Education.Education: All academic degrees and coursework must be from accredited or pre-accredited institutions.Candidate has a bachelor&rsquo;s degree (master&rsquo;s degree preferred) in information technology, computer science, system engineering, or equivalent degree.
For all IT positions, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below: Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. AND You qualify at the GS-11 level, if you meet one of the following qualification requirements: Completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management OR a degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the fields identified above and required the development or adaptation of applications, systems or networks, or three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education in one of the areas described above leading to such a degree; OR You must demonstrate in your resume at least one (1) year of qualifying experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: serving as a technical specialist in implementing and supporting hosting infrastructure technologies; utilizing network and system scanning tools to detect security risks and vulnerabilities; participating with other specialists on maintaining enterprise operating systems; providing assistance to customers in support of application systems hosted on an organization's servers; and responding to user inquiries and problem reports regarding supported applications. You will receive credit for all experience material to the position, including experience gained in religious, civic, welfare, service, and organizational activities, regardless of whether you received pay. Do not copy and paste the duties, specialized experience, or occupational assessment questionnaire from this announcement into your resume as that will not be considered a demonstration of your qualifications for this position. Preview assessment questionnaire before you apply: https://apply.usastaffing.gov/ViewQuestionnaire/11555041	If you qualify based on education in lieu of specialized experience, you are strongly encouraged to submit a copy of your transcripts or a list of your courses including titles, credit hours completed and grades. Unofficial transcripts will be accepted in the application packages. Official transcripts will be required from all selectees prior to receiving an official offer. Click here for information on Foreign Education.
For all IT positions, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below: Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. AND You qualify at the GS-11 level, if you meet one of the following qualification requirements: Completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management OR a degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the fields identified above and required the development or adaptation of applications, systems or networks, or three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education in one of the areas described above leading to such a degree; OR You must demonstrate in your resume at least one (1) year of qualifying experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: serving as a technical specialist in implementing and supporting hosting infrastructure technologies; utilizing network and system scanning tools to detect security risks and vulnerabilities; participating with other specialists on maintaining enterprise operating systems; providing assistance to customers in support of application systems hosted on an organization's servers; and responding to user inquiries and problem reports regarding supported applications. Do not copy and paste the duties, specialized experience, or occupational assessment questionnaire from this announcement into your resume as that will not be considered a demonstration of your qualifications for this position. You will receive credit for all experience material to the position, including experience gained in religious, civic, welfare, service, and organizational activities, regardless of whether you received pay. Preview assessment questionnaire before you apply: https://apply.usastaffing.gov/ViewQuestionnaire/11555053	If you qualify based on education in lieu of specialized experience, you are strongly encouraged to submit a copy of your transcripts or a list of your courses including titles, credit hours completed and grades. Unofficial transcripts will be accepted in the application packages. Official transcripts will be required from all selectees prior to receiving an official offer. Click here for information on Foreign Education.
You must meet the qualification requirements by 11:59 pm Eastern Time on the closing date of the announcement. Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience. If you are a federal employee, the level of experience we are looking for is typically gained in a GS-14, GS-15, or equivalent-level position. Technical qualifications The technical qualifications describe the necessary professional and technical knowledge, skills, and competencies needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. The technical qualifications for this position are: Experience working with an organization's leadership and senior executives to create a data governance or management strategy. Experience conducting a data maturity assessment to determine gaps in an organization's data governance or management processes. Experience selecting and implementing security and privacy controls to protect federal information systems. Experience establishing data architecture guidance to ensure that data systems have consistent metadata. Experience participating in an enterprise-wide data governance body consisting of business and technical stakeholders to: 1) identify the scope of the data that needs to be managed; 2) prioritize key data-related issues; 3) establish needed policies; and 4) implement processes and solutions to address requirements.	This position does not have education requirements.
"Qualifications required: The FRTF is a fast paced and ever-changing environment. FRTF engages across the Department, Federal agencies and the White House to facilitate the reunification of families separated by the prior Administration. Detailees will be expected to quickly take ownership of their portfolio and drive projects forward. Best suited candidates would be comfortable with uncertainty and be able to hit the ground running with minimal management. Evaluating, analyzing and/or interpreting data results by utilizing data analytic tools, models, methods and techniques; Developing analyzing biographic and/or demographic data obtained from a variety of internal/external sources to assess validity and identify trends; and Evaluating, analyzing and/or interpreting data results by utilizing data analytic tools, models, methods and techniques; Ability to express and present ideas regarding complex topics to the team through both written and oral communications. Previous experience in Microsoft Excel, Word, PowerPoint, SQL, Tableau and/or other analytical tools to identify patterns and correlations among various data points to determine trends and makes significant recommendations leadership. Please read the following important information to ensure we have everything we need to consider your application:
It is your responsibility to ensure that you submit appropriate documentation prior to the closing date. Your resume serves as the basis for qualification determinations and must highlight your most relevant and significant experience as it relates to this Joint Duty assignment opportunity announcement. Be clear and specific when describing your work history since human resources cannot make assumptions regarding your experience. Your application will be rated based on your resume. Please ensure EACH work history includes ALL of the following information: Job Title (Include series and grade of Federal Job) Duties (Be specific in describing your duties) Name of Federal agency Supervisor name, email, and phone number Start and end dates including month and year (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)"	EDUCATIONAL SUBSTITUTION: There is no educational substitution for this position.
"Applicants must have demonstrated experience as listed below. This requirement is according to the AO Classification, Compensation, and Recruitment Systems which include interpretive guidance and reference to the OPM Operating Manual for Qualification Standards for General Schedule Positions. Specialized Experience: Applicants must have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience which is in or directly related to the line of work of this position. Specialized experience is demonstrated experience in the following: Demonstrated experience and/or intimate exposure to Enterprise infrastructure and Enterprise data architectures, data modeling, data warehouse/data mart design, systems integration, ETL development, reporting/visualization tools, and data warehousing concepts. Experience in SAP Business Objects suite of tools including Universe design, WEBI and report development. Experience with developing dashboards using Tableau, Administration of Tableau and Business Objects applications. Advanced/strong SQL scripting. Preferred Qualifications: - Knowledge of and experience with an ETL tool is strongly desired.
- Working knowledge of other reporting tools like SSRS and PowerBI is a plus.
- Experience with Erwin, Python, Java, JavaScript is a plus."	This position does not require education to qualify.
To qualify for an IT Specialist (DATAMGT/APPSW) position your resume and supporting documentation must support: A. Specialized Experience: One year of specialized experience that equipped you with the particular competencies to successfully perform the duties of the position and is directly in or related to this position. To qualify at the GS-13 level, applicants must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Applicants must meet eligibility requirements including time-in-grade (General Schedule (GS) positions only), time-after-competitive appointment, minimum qualifications, and any other regulatory requirements by the cut-off/closing date of the announcement. Creditable specialized experience includes: Conceptualizing, developing, testing, and maintaining dashboard metrics for leadership decision-making. Working with Microsoft 365 cloud-based applications including Teams, SharePoint on-line, and Power Suite. Performing data transformation, modeling, and analysis for managing business intelligence for an organization. Leading an organization's records management and web content management with an understanding of organizational knowledge management. For all positions individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.	Substitution of education may not be used in lieu of specialized experience for this grade level.
"You must meet the following requirements by the closing date of this announcement. Specialized experience: For the GS-13, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: - Experience using SQL (Structured Query Language); AND
- Data Analysis using Python or R.; AND
- Developing and creating Data Visualization using data analysis tools like excel, PowerBI and/or Tableau; AND
- Using statistical techniques like regression analysis; AND
- Working with Hadoop tools and MS Azure Analytics tools. In addition to meeting specialized experience, applicants must also show proficiency in IT-related experience demonstrating each of the competencies listed below: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations."	
"You must meet the following requirements within 14 days of the closing date of this announcement.
Specialized experience: For the GS-13, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: - Experience using SQL (Structured Query Language); AND
- Data Analysis using Python or R.; AND
- Developing and creating Data Visualization using data analysis tools like excel, PowerBI and/or Tableau; AND
- Using statistical techniques like regression analysis; AND
- Working with Hadoop tools and MS Azure Analytics tools. In addition to meeting specialized experience, applicants must also show proficiency in IT-related experience demonstrating each of the competencies listed below: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. In addition to the above requirements, you must meet the following time-in-grade requirement, if applicable:
For the GS-13 you must have been at the GS-12 level for 52 weeks."	
"In order to qualify, you must meet the specialized experience requirements described in the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Qualification Standards for General Schedule Positions, Information Technology (IT) Management Series, 2210 (Alternative A) BASIC REQUIREMENT OR INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT: IT-related experience which demonstrates the (four) required competencies listed below.
1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. In addition to meeting the basic requirement above, to qualify for this position you must also meet the qualification requirements listed below: SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Applicants must have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at the next lower grade GS-11, or equivalent in other pay systems. Examples of specialized experience includes knowledge of systems integration methods, performance tuning methods, test and evaluation methods and procedures, IT security principles and methods, and project management principles and methods sufficient to plan and coordinate the installation of new products or equipment; knowledge of configuration management methods and techniques for integrating information system components sufficient to install and maintain software and hardware, optimize functionality of systems, and diagnose and recover failed systems; knowledge of methods, principles, and practices covering troubleshooting of complex computer system failures, recovery of systems, adjusting, modifying, and improving systems to include hardware and software components. FEDERAL TIME-IN-GRADE (TIG) REQUIREMENT FOR GENERAL SCHEDULE (GS) POSITIONS: Merit promotion applicants must meet applicable time-in-&#173;grade requirements to be considered eligible. One year at the GS-11 level is required to meet the time-in-grade requirements for the GS-12 level. TIG applies if you are in a current GS position or held a GS position within the previous 52 weeks. NOTE: Applicants applying as VEOA candidates who are current GS civil service employees or are prior GS civil service employees within the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES (KSAs): Your qualifications will be evaluated on the basis of your level of knowledge, skills, abilities and/or competencies in the following areas:
1. Knowledge of a wide range of IT principles, concepts, and methods sufficient to plan and carry out difficult assignments using new methods, approaches, and procedures.
2. Knowledge or the organization's policy and planning formulation process, missions, and objectives sufficient to prepare IT polices and plans.
3. Knowledge of budgetary processes, cost-benefit analysis methods, and analysis of performance data to prepare persuasive budget recommendations in support of lT requirements,
4. Knowledge of system architecture, integration techniques, and testing methods.
5. Ability to analyze complexities of existing technology; to review. revise, and develop policy; to initiate plans for enhancements: and to provide management with sufficient technical and cost analysis Information, through written documentation and oral briefings, to render informed judgments.
6. Ability to maintain an up-to-date awareness of technological advances sufficient to predict how management can
effectively meet future requirements. PART-TIME OR UNPAID EXPERIENCE: Credit will be given for appropriate unpaid and or part-time work. You must clearly identify the duties and responsibilities in each position held and the total number of hours per week. VOLUNTEER WORK EXPERIENCE: Refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service Programs (i.e., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community; student and social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge and skills that can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience."	
Specialized Experience GS-09: Must have at least 24 months IT experience, education, or training in analysis of the interrelationship of pertinent components of the system. IT experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment. IT experience scheduling the sequence of programs to be processed by computers where alternatives had to be weighed with a view to production efficiency. Specialized Experience GS-11: Must have at least 36 months IT experience, education, or training that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization. IT experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls. IT experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment. IT experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion.	You must provide transcripts or other documentation to support your Educational claims. To receive credit for Education, you must provide documentation of proof that you meet the Education requirements for this position.
"Your resume must demonstrate at least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-13 grade level or pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector. Specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1- Attention to Detail- Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: Explains and defends project results and persuades potential users or approving officials of the value of recommendations and findings.
2- Customer Service- Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: Coordinated closely with other Brand personnel in the development, control and update o requirements for inclusion.
3- Oral Communication- Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: Presents briefings to coordinate matters of mutual interest and discusses potential controversial proposals and alternatives with colleagues within the scope of assigned projects.
4- Problem Solving: Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: Develops long range strategies to address evolving technology requirements by monitoring existing plans, developing mechanisms to project future program developments and ensure the integration of all system components.
In addition to the items above, best qualified applicants will have specialized experience as demonstrated by:
*Performing or applying, database queries (SQL and noSQL), database theory, database design and the Relational Database Management Systems for routine maintenance, recovery and handling failover data.
* Performing data modeling, dimension modeling, Data Warehousing, ETL services, data dashboarding, cloud data services, data architecture design, data cataloging, and data APIs.
*Developing plans and schedules, estimating resource requirements, defining milestones and deliverables, monitoring activities, and evaluating and reporting on accomplishments and ensure the integration of data initiatives, services, and programs.
*Applying, advance IT data principles, concepts, methods, standards and practices to provide expert technical advice, guidance, and recommendations to management and other technical specialists on critical IT Issues.
*Prepare briefings to senior management officials on complex/controversial issues. Additional qualification information can be found from the following Office of Personnel Management web site: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualification-standards/2200/information-technology-it-management-series-2210-alternative-a/ Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., professional, philanthropic, religious, spiritual, community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment."	
"Who May Apply:
Only applicants who meet one of the employment authority categories below are eligible to apply for this job. You will be asked to identify which category or categories you meet, and to provide documents which prove you meet the category or categories you selected. See Proof of Eligibility for an extensive list of document requirements for all employment authorities. 10-Point Other Veterans? Rating30 Percent or More Disabled Veterans5-Point Veterans' PreferenceCurrent Army Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS) EmployeeCurrent Department of Army Civilian EmployeesCurrent DoD Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS) Employee (non-Army)Current Permanent Department of Defense (DOD) Civilian Employee (non-Army)Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS) Interchange AgreementDisabled Veteran w/ a Service-Connected Disability, More than 10%, Less than 30%Non-Department of Defense (DoD) TransferPrior Federal Service EmployeeUnited States Citizen Applying to a DCIPS Position Army DCIPS positions apply Veteran's Preference to preference eligible candidates as defined by Section 2108 of Title 5 U.S.C., in accordance with the procedures provided in DoD Instruction 1400.25, Volume 2005, DCIPS Employment and Placement. In order to qualify, you must meet the experience requirements described below. Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community; student; social). You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience. Your resume must clearly describe your relevant experience. Specialized Experience: One year of specialized experience which includes 1) Supporting the delivery of web applications using various programming languages and frameworks, such as, Java, Javascript, React JS, Node JS, Python, cascading style sheets (CSS), etc; 2) Integrating custom tools and interfaces to relational databases using scripting language such as Structured Query Language (SQL); 3) Providing recommendations on new technologies and/or architectures AND 4) Participating in Agile/Scrum software development projects. This definition of specialized experience is typical of work performed at the next lower grade/level position in the Federal Service GG/GS-12. The specialized experience must include, or be supplemented by, information technology related experience (paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training, as appropriate) which demonstrates each of the four competencies, as defined: (1) Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: completing thorough and accurate work independently, even in the most difficult or stressful situations; occasionally reviewing work completed by others. (2) Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: resolving routine and non-routine problems, questions, or complaints; developing and maintaining strong, mutually supportive working relationships with customers; conducting evaluation of support to determine quality of services and customer satisfaction, and recommending procedural changes based on customer need or changes in policy and/or regulation. (3) Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: convincingly conveying complex information to customers; presenting thoughts that are well-organized and demonstrating confidence in the facts and ideas; adjusting style when working with individuals with different levels of understanding; using various methods to explain and convey information. (4) Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: solving complex or sensitive problems by developing and proposing strategic alternatives; identifying possible conflicts and shared benefits; helping team anticipate problems and identifying and evaluating potential sources of information; providing feedback and coaching to others to help solve problems; engaging appropriate stakeholders when developing solutions in order to understand and incorporate multiple perspectives and needs; evaluating the effectiveness of decisions and adjusting future decisions as appropriate. Some federal jobs allow you to substitute your education for the required experience in order to qualify. For this job, you must meet the qualification requirement using experience alone--no substitution of education for experience is permitted. You will be evaluated on the basis of your level of competency in the following areas:
Data ManagementInformation ManagementSoftware DevelopmentTechnical Competence"	
You may qualify at the GS-12, if you fulfill the following qualifications: One year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service: Oracle database applications Working with IT specialists in other branches to ensure that the end product complies with IT policy. Experience briefing senior leaders (GS-15 and above) on program plans and activities. You may qualify at the GS-11, if you fulfill the following qualifications: A. One year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service: Understanding/experience with network architecture in an enterprise system Experience with Oracle database applications. OR; B. Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; OR C. You have some specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and you have more than one year but less than two years of education as described in B. You have computed the percentage of the requirements that you meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience.	Substitution of education may not be used in lieu of specialized experience for the GS-12 grade level. ARE YOU USING YOUR EDUCATION TO QUALIFY AT THE GS-11 LEVEL? You MUST provide transcripts or other documentation to support your educational claims. All materials must be submitted by the closing date of the announcement. GRADUATE EDUCATION: One academic year of graduate education is considered to be the number of credits hours that your graduate school has determined to represent one academic year of full-time study. Such study may have been performed on a full-time or part-time basis. If you cannot obtain your graduate school's definition of one year of graduate study, 18 semester hours (or 27 quarter hours) should be considered as satisfying the requirement for one year of full-time graduate study. FOREIGN EDUCATION: If you are using education completed in foreign colleges or universities to meet the qualification requirements, you must show that the education credentials have been evaluated by a private organization that specializes in interpretation of foreign education programs and such education has been deemed equivalent to that gained in an accredited U.S. education program; or full credit has been given for the courses at a U.S. accredited college or university. For further information, visit: Foreign Education
"In order to qualify for an Information Technology Specialist, GS-2210 position you must have: IT related experience demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience obtained in either the private or public sector, and/or completion of specific, intensive training that demonstrates all of the following four competencies: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; and
2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; and
3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; and
4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. Additionally, in order to qualify for this Supervisory IT Specialist, GS-14 level your resume must clearly demonstrate 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector typically gained in the IT field or through performing IT related tasks such as: Designing, maintaining, and upgrading reporting processes and data management tools. Periodically evaluate these tools and processes to select appropriate replacements based on a cost benefit analysis, Providing analysis of the impact of changes in reporting requirements on existing reporting development activities and recommends changes in priorities, schedules, and deliverables, Providing guidance and technical advice to IT specialists to troubleshoot complex data warehouse access and retrieval problems and on the application of advanced tools and technologies in data warehousing and assigning work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and requirements of assignments, and the capabilities of employees. Do not copy and paste the duties, specialized experience, or occupational assessment questionnaire from this announcement into your resume as that will not be considered a demonstration of your qualifications for this position. You will receive credit for all experience material to the position, including experience gained in religious, civic, welfare, service, and organizational activities, regardless of whether you received pay. Preview assessment questionnaire before you apply: https://apply.usastaffing.gov/ViewQuestionnaire/11568434"	
"In order to qualify for an Information Technology Specialist, GS-2210 position you must have: IT related experience demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience obtained in either the private or public sector, and/or completion of specific, intensive training that demonstrates all of the following four competencies: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; and
2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; and
3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; and
4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. Additionally, in order to qualify for this Supervisory IT Specialist, GS-14 level your resume must clearly demonstrate 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector typically gained in the IT field or through performing IT related tasks such as: Designing, maintaining, and upgrading reporting processes and data management tools. Periodically evaluate these tools and processes to select appropriate replacements based on a cost benefit analysis, Providing analysis of the impact of changes in reporting requirements on existing reporting development activities and recommends changes in priorities, schedules, and deliverables, Providing guidance and technical advice to IT specialists to troubleshoot complex data warehouse access and retrieval problems and on the application of advanced tools and technologies in data warehousing and assigning work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and requirements of assignments, and the capabilities of employees. Do not copy and paste the duties, specialized experience, or occupational assessment questionnaire from this announcement into your resume as that will not be considered a demonstration of your qualifications for this position. You will receive credit for all experience material to the position, including experience gained in religious, civic, welfare, service, and organizational activities, regardless of whether you received pay. Preview assessment questionnaire before you apply: https://apply.usastaffing.gov/ViewQuestionnaire/11595429"	
"At the GS-13 grade level applicants must have 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, GS-12, in the Federal Service.
Specialized experience may include but is not limited to database administration, data mining and analytics (DM&amp;A), SQL Query Language. Experience in these specialized areas with emphasis on administration, development, maintenance, and customer support. Experience and knowledge of data mining and analytics (DM&amp;A) techniques that includes heavy reliance on obtaining access to heterogeneous information systems; state-of-the art programming languages such as JAVA, R, Python, Anaconda, SQL, C++, SAS and/or customized programming scripts; and design and development of new data requirements to discovery and solve known business problems and/or demonstrate patterns, trends, relationships and anomalies of particular interest or concern; take statistical and computational analyses and turns these into graphs, charts, and animations; create static and dynamic visualizations such as motion charts, digital maps and word maps that clearly show insights from data and corresponding analytics.
At the GS-14grade level applicants must have 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, GS-13, in the Federal Service.
Specialized experience may include but is not limited to database administration, data mining and analytics (DM&amp;A), SQL Query Language. Experience in these specialized areas with emphasis on administration, development, maintenance, and customer support. Evidence of a sound technical background and experience in the development and administration of various databases such as: SQL Server, Oracle, DB2, Sybase and PostgreSQL; installation, configuration and administration of business intelligence tools: SAS, SQL Report Services, MS Power BI and experience working in a Nutanix virtual environment are required. On the job experience such as proficiency in the management of complex database projects that involve stakeholders from multiple agencies; experience and knowledge in creating and communicating database design documentation to senior management; experience and knowledge determining the appropriate software packages and computer programming scripts to use in accessing and exporting data from multiple sources into correctly configured data stores for DM&amp;A use; experience and knowledge utilizing programming/query languages such as JAVA, R, Python, Anaconda, SQL, C/C++/C#, SAS and customized programming scripts in the performance of DM&amp;A.; and troubleshooting advanced technical problems of a complex or unknown nature with escalation to a vendor when it is appropriate or necessary."	There is no substitution of education for the required specialized experience at the GS-13 or 14 level.
"For all positions individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below.1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
ANDCandidates for grade 11 must possess minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 9 in the normal line of progression for this occupation. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the positionsuch asknowledge of the Linux operating system and Docker; knowledge of the Java programming language; knowledge of the Python programming language; knowledge of search engines such as Solr and Elasticsearch; knowledge of SQL databases such as PostgreSQL; working knowledge of web standards and technologies such as HTTP, REST, and JSON; ability to build secure, reusable and scalable code and libraries to support applications, services and databases.Candidates for grade 12 must possess a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 11 in the normal line of progression for this occupation. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the positionsuch asknowledge of the Linux operating system and Docker; knowledge of the Java programming language at a proficient level; knowledge of the Python programming language at a proficient level; knowledge of search engines such as Solr and Elasticsearch; knowledge of SQL databases such as PostgreSQL; working knowledge of web standards and technologies such as HTTP, REST, and JSON; ability to build secure, reusable and scalable code and libraries to support applications, services and databases.
Candidates for grade 13 must possess a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 12 in the normal line of progression for this occupation. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the positionsuch asknowledge of the Linux operating system and Docker at a proficient level; knowledge of the Java programming language at a proficient level; knowledge of the Python programming language at a proficient level; knowledge of search engines such as Solr and Elasticsearch at a proficient level; knowledge of SQL databases such as PostgreSQL; knowledge of asynchronous messaging brokers such as RabbitMQ or Kafka; working knowledge of web standards and technologies such as HTTP, REST, and JSON; ability to build secure, reusable and scalable code and libraries to support applications, services and databases.OREducation:All academic degrees and coursework must be from accredited or pre-accredited institutions. Undergraduate or Graduate Education: Degree in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management or degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the fields identified above and required the development or adaptation of applications, systems or networks. Grade 11: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degreeor3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree."	
"Resumes for federal government positions need more detailed work descriptions and accomplishments than a typical private sector resume. Please be sure to clearly describe the full scope of your work experiences in your resume. Basic Requirement: Applicants must have IT-related experience demonstrating the following competencies appropriate to, or above, the level of this position. Your resume and work experience should clearly support your ability to meet these competencies and will be evaluated as part of the entire application process. Attention to Detail- experience reviewing my own information technology-related work or data and have been asked by others to review their work or data to ensure accuracy, completeness, and consistency with standards
Customer Service- experience maintaining relationships with customers, assessing current information technology needs of customers, and developing or identifying information technology products and services that are tailored to meet customer needs
Oral Communication- briefing mid-level management and IT staff on the status of information technology systems, projects, or daily operations, including the communication of technical information to a non-technical audience
Problem Solving- identifying alternatives to address complex information technology-related issues by gathering and applying information from a variety of sources that provide a number of potential solutions In addition to the Basic Competency Requirements listed above, one year of specialized experience equivalent in level of difficulty and responsibility to that of the next lower grade GS-11 in the federal service, which demonstrates the ability to perform the duties of the position, is required. Specialized experience is defined as providing guidance and technical support to IT specialists regarding the requirements analysis, design, programming, testing, and implementation (the entire spectrum of software life-cycle management) of existing and proposed database management systems; approaching proposed applications in a systematic manner and applies analysis techniques to determine the scope and classification of software and hardware problems AND IT-related experience demonstrating Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Oral Communication, and Problem Solving as described in the vacancy announcement. Volunteer Experience: Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual, community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience."	Education is not substitutable for specialized experience at this grade level.
Who May Apply: US Citizens In order to qualify, you must meet the education and/or experience requirements described below. Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community; student; social). You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience. Your resume must clearly describe your relevant experience; if qualifying based on education, your transcripts will be required as part of your application. Additional information about transcripts is in this document. Basic Requirement for Information Technology Specialist (Internet/Data Management): Specialized and Other Experience: One year of specialized experience which includes 1) managing, administrating, developing, delivering, and/or supporting information technology (IT) systems or services; 2) planning, developing, and/or implementing systems for the acquisition, storage, or retrieval of data; and, 3) planning, designing, developing, testing, implementing, and/or managing large scale web applications, data collection, and other web-based initiatives. This definition of specialized experience is typical of work performed at the next lower grade/level position in the federal service (GS-12). The specialized experience must include, or be supplemented by, information technology related experience (paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training, as appropriate) which demonstrates each of the four competencies, as defined: (1) Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: completing thorough and accurate work independently, even in the most difficult or stressful situations; occasionally reviewing work completed by others. (2) Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: resolving routine and non-routine problems, questions, or complaints; developing and maintaining strong, mutually supportive working relationships with customers; conducting evaluation of support to determine quality of services and customer satisfaction, and recommending procedural changes based on customer need or changes in policy and/or regulation. (3) Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: convincingly conveying complex information to customers; presenting thoughts that are well-organized and demonstrating confidence in the facts and ideas; adjusting style when working with individuals with different levels of understanding; using various methods to explain and convey information. (4) Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: solving complex or sensitive problems by developing and proposing strategic alternatives; identifying possible conflicts and shared benefits; helping team anticipate problems and identifying and evaluating potential sources of information; providing feedback and coaching to others to help solve problems; engaging appropriate stakeholders when developing solutions in order to understand and incorporate multiple perspectives and needs; evaluating the effectiveness of decisions and adjusting future decisions as appropriate.	Some federal jobs allow you to substitute your education for the required experience in order to qualify. For this job, you must meet the qualification requirement using experience alone--no substitution of education for experience is permitted.
"For all positions individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below.1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
AND
Candidates for grade 09 must possess a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 07 in the normal line of progressions for this occupation. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the positionsuch as knowledge of the Linux operating system, C++, Python &amp;/or Java programming; knowledge and the ability to utilize modern programming practices and standards; exposure to modern code versioning tools and continuous integration and testing environments. Candidates for grade 11 must possess a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 9 in the normal line of progression for this occupation. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the positionsuch asknowledge of the Linux operating system, C++, Python &amp;/or Java programming; knowledge and the ability to utilize modern programming practices and standards; knowledge of modern code versioning tools and continuous integration and testing environments. Candidates for grade 12 must possess a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 11 in the normal line of progression for this occupation. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the positionsuch asproficient knowledge of the Linux operating system, C++, Python &amp;/or Java programming; knowledge and the ability to utilize modern programming practices and standards; knowledge of modern code versioning tools and continuous integration and testing environments. Candidates for grade 13 must possess a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 12 in the normal line of progressions for this occupation. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the positionsuch as expert knowledge of the Linux operating system, C++, &amp; Python programming; expert knowledge and the ability to utilize modern programmingpractices and standards, proficient knowledge of web enabled technologies and database access. OR
Education:
All academic degrees and coursework must be from accredited or pre-accredited institutions. Undergraduate or Graduate Education: Degree in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management or degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the fields identified above and required the development or adaptation of applications, systems or networks.
Grade 09: master's degree or equivalent graduate degree
or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or equivalent graduate degreeGrade 11: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degreeor
3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree."	
"This position is designated ""Mission Essential."" In the event of severe weather conditions or other such emergency type situations (natural or man-made disaster) the incumbent is required to report to work or remain at work as scheduled to support mission operations. Who May Apply: US Citizens In order to qualify, you must meet the experience requirements described below. Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community; student; social). You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience. Your resume must clearly describe your relevant experience; if qualifying based on education, your transcripts will be required as part of your application. Additional information about transcripts is in this document. Basic Requirement for Information Technology Specialist (Systems Administration/Data Management): Specialized and Other Experience: One year of specialized experience which includes maintaining and monitoring all production databases; developing and administering data standards, policies, or procedures; planning and scheduling the installation of new or modified hardware and operating systems or applications software; and installing, patching and troubleshooting all systems connected to the storage area network. This definition of specialized experience is typical of work performed at the next lower grade/level position in the federal service (GS-11). The specialized experience must include, or be supplemented by, information technology related experience (paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training, as appropriate) which demonstrates each of the four competencies, as defined: (1) Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: completing thorough and accurate work independently, even in the most difficult or stressful situations; occasionally reviewing work completed by others. (2) Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: resolving routine and non-routine problems, questions, or complaints; developing and maintaining strong, mutually supportive working relationships with customers; conducting evaluation of support to determine quality of services and customer satisfaction, and recommending procedural changes based on customer need or changes in policy and/or regulation. (3) Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: convincingly conveying complex information to customers; presenting thoughts that are well-organized and demonstrating confidence in the facts and ideas; adjusting style when working with individuals with different levels of understanding; using various methods to explain and convey information. (4) Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: solving complex or sensitive problems by developing and proposing strategic alternatives; identifying possible conflicts and shared benefits; helping team anticipate problems and identifying and evaluating potential sources of information; providing feedback and coaching to others to help solve problems; engaging appropriate stakeholders when developing solutions in order to understand and incorporate multiple perspectives and needs; evaluating the effectiveness of decisions and adjusting future decisions as appropriate. Some federal jobs allow you to substitute your education for the required experience in order to qualify. For this job, you must meet the qualification requirement using experience alone--no substitution of education for experience is permitted."	
THESE QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS MUST BE MET BY THE CLOSING DATE 08/22/2022. Do not cut and paste the duties, specialized experience, or occupational assessment questionnaire from this announcement into your resume as that will not be considered a demonstration of your qualifications for this position. To qualify for this position, your resume must clearly demonstrate that you have IT-related information security experience in each of the four competencies listed below: Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations: listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. In addition to the above OPM requirements, in order to qualify for this position at the GS-13 level, your resume must clearly demonstrate that you have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-12 level in the federal service. MINIMUM QUALIFYING SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, an applicant's one full year of specialized experience must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary for successful job performance. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience equal to the GS-12 level include performing the following types of tasks on a regular and recurring basis: Integrating security into all phases of agile Tableau report development, testing, operations and maintenance of servers and related databases; AND Implementing, operating, and maintaining custom Tableau reports using Tableau Platform and related business intelligence technologies. Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service Programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; community; student; social). If such experience is on a part-time basis, you must provide the average number of hours worked per week as well as the beginning and ending dates of the experience so it can be fully credited. TO PREVIEW THE OCCUPATIONAL ASSESSMENT QUESTIONNAIRE, please click on the following link: https://apply.usastaffing.gov/ViewQuestionnaire/11562748	
